# AWS Copilot v1.17: Tracing for Request-Driven Web Services.

Copilot v1.17 brings a brand-new feature and several improvements:

* **Tracing for Request-Driven Web Service:** With the release of AWS X-Ray tracing support for AWS App runner services, you can now add `observability.tracing: awsxray` in your Request-Driven Web Service's 
  manifest to send your traces to AWS XRay. [See detailed section](./#send-your-request-driven-web-services-traces-to-aws-xray).
* **Increased visibility for progress trackers:** [See detailed section](./#define-messages-filter-policy-in-publishsubscribe-service-architecture).
* **Bug fix:** Remove color formatting of suggested pipeline names ([#3437](https://github.com/aws/copilot-cli/pull/3437)).

## What’s AWS Copilot?

The AWS Copilot CLI is a tool for developers to build, release, and operate production ready containerized applications on AWS.  
From getting started, pushing to staging, and releasing to production, Copilot can help manage the entire lifecycle of your application development.
At the foundation of Copilot is AWS CloudFormation, which enables you to provision infrastructure as code in a single operation.
Copilot provides pre-defined CloudFormation templates and user-friendly workflows for different types of micro services creation and operation,
enabling you to focus on developing your application, instead of writing deployment scripts.

See the section [Overview](../docs/concepts/overview.en.md) for a more detailed introduction to AWS Copilot.

## Send Your Request-Driven Web Service's Traces to AWS X-Ray
_Contributed by [Wanxian Yang](https://github.com/Lou1415926/)_

You can now send traces generated by your Request-Driven Web Services to AWS X-Ray. This allows you to visualize the service map and traces 
through the Amazon CloudWatch console or AWS X-Ray console.

To use this feature, your service needs to be first instrumented with 
[AWS Distro for OpenTelemetry](https://aws.amazon.com/otel/?otel-blogs.sort-by=item.additionalFields.createdDate&otel-blogs.sort-order=desc).
You can either [manually instrument](https://aws-otel.github.io/docs/getting-started/python-sdk/trace-manual-instr) your service, 
or for a quicker, easier set up, [auto-instrument](https://aws-otel.github.io/docs/getting-started/python-sdk/trace-auto-instr) 
your service through Dockerfile without changing application code.

After instrumenting your service, simply modify your Request-Driven Web Service's manifest to include the [observability](../docs/manifest/rd-web-service.en.md#observability) configuration:
```yaml
observability:
  tracing: awsxray
```

After running `copilot svc deploy`, traces generated by your service will get sent to AWS X-Ray, allowing you to measure
the current state of your services easily.

## What’s next?

Download the new Copilot CLI version by following the link below and leave your feedback on [GitHub](https://github.com/aws/copilot-cli/) or our [Community Chat](https://gitter.im/aws/copilot-cli):

* Download [the latest CLI version](../docs/getting-started/install.en.md)
* Try our [Getting Started Guide](../docs/getting-started/first-app-tutorial.en.md)
* Read full release notes on [GitHub](https://github.com/aws/copilot-cli/releases/tag/v1.17.0)

